# Project for Getting and Cleaning Data, Coursera.

For this project, the student was instructed to get and manipulate an external data set and to deliver a tidy data set. The data come from accelerometers from the Samsung Galaxy S smartphone and are made available as part of a wearable computing resource (see: http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones).
 
## Data Products

This Github repository contains:
- a script (run_analysis.R),
- a tidy dataset (tidyMeans.txt) that is generated by the script,
- a code book (codeBook.md) that describes the variables, the data, and any transformations or work performed to clean up the data. 

## The Script

The script (run_analysis.R) was written in a Microsoft Windows 8.1 environment with the RStudio Version 0.98.1028 IDE.

The script performs the following operations:
- Sets the R dependencies
- Gets data from its source at UCI unless it already exists in the user's directory. 
- Merges the training and the test sets to create one data set.
- Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement.
- Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set
- Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive activity names.
- Creates a second, independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject.

These operations are described in further detail in codeBook.md.

## The Tidy Dataset

The tidy data set (tidyMeans.txt) is a space delimited text file. Each row is a unique combination of a subject/person and one of six types of activity performed by the subject. Each column beyond those that identify the subject and the activity concerns a unique measurement method available on the subject's phone. Cell values are mean measurements for the subject, activity and method. 
Variable names and activity labels are altered from the original data set as described in codeBook.md. The tidy set was generated from data downloaded on 2015-03-21.

## The Code Book

The CodeBook (codeBook.md) describes:
- the original dataset,
- how it was acquired and transformed, and 
- what variables are in the output, the tidy data set.